Initial commit for token transfer processor docs (#1544)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/indexers/build-your-own/token-transfer-processor/README.mdx

---
title: Token Transfer Processor
sidebar_position: 0
---

## Overview

> The token transfer processor is a [package](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/ttp-v1.0.0/ingest/processors/token_transfer) in the [ingest-sdk](../ingest-sdk/README.mdx) that tracks transfers, mints, burns, clawbacks, and fees for assets/tokens on the Stellar network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The token transfer processor is a [package](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/ttp-v1.0.0/ingest/processors/token_transfer) which uses the [ingest-sdk](../ingest-sdk/README.mdx) to parse Stellar network transaction data and derive events representing token transfers, mints, burns, clawbacks, and fees.
```

it may be worthwhile to reference TTP as using ingest as a client rather than being part of it?

> The token_transfer package is responsible for processing and generating standardized token transfer events from Stellar ledger operations. It supports both classic Stellar operations as well as Soroban contract events, providing a unified view of all token movements within the network.
> 
> The processor parses ledger operations and their results to create structured events that follow the [CAP-67](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0067.md) Unified Events specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The token_transfer package consumes Stellar network transaction data and emits [CAP-67, Unified Events](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0067.md) standardized token transfer events which represent all token movements on the network. 
```

## Key Features

- Processes all token movement operations - classic and smart contract:

  - Simple Payments
  - Path payments
  - Account merges
  - Trustline Revocations
  - Claimable balance operations
  - Liquidity pool operations
  - Clawback operations
  - Smart contract events - Stellar Asset Contract events + SEP-41 compliant token events

- Generates standardized events:

  - Transfer: Movement of tokens between accounts
  - Mint: Creation of new tokens
  - Burn: Destruction of tokens
  - Clawback: Asset issuer reclaiming tokens
  - Fee: Network fees paid

- Handles muxed account information for compliance with CAP-67 multiplexing support

- Reconciliation for older protocol versions to ensure consistency between operation changes and generated events

## Event Structure

> Token transfer events follow a standardized structure as defined in the [proto3 specification](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/ttp-v1.0.0/protos/ingest/processors/token_transfer/token_transfer_event.proto)
> 
> ```proto
> message TokenTransferEvent {
>   EventMeta meta = 1;
>   oneof event {
>     Transfer transfer = 2;
>     Mint mint = 3;
>     Burn burn = 4;
>     Clawback clawback = 5;
>     Fee fee = 6;
>   }
> }
> ```
> 
> Each event contains metadata about the operation and specialized fields for the specific event type.
> 
> ```proto
> message EventMeta {
>   uint32 ledger_sequence = 1;
>   google.protobuf.Timestamp closed_at = 2;
>   string tx_hash = 3;
>   // Index of transaction within this ledger. This is 1-indexed as per SEP-35
>   uint32 transaction_index = 4;
>   // Index of operation within the transaction, if it is not a fee event. This is 1-indexed as per SEP-35
>   optional uint32 operation_index = 5;
>   /* For a classic operation, this contract_address is the ContractID as derived from asset
>      For a smart contract event, this contractId is the id of the contract emiting the core event
>    */
>   string contract_address = 6;
> 
>   /*
>    The to_muxed_info follows the spec outlined in section in CAP-67 - https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0067.md#multiplexing-support
>  */
>   MuxedInfo to_muxed_info= 7;
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Token transfer events follow the CAP-67 model and a golang binding to the event model is provided as `TokenTransferEvent` in the `token_transfer` package. 
```

The suggestion is based on how we want to promote proto3. Its usage currently seems mostly encapsulated internally. Mentioning it in detail now seems superfluous. We aren't proposing to use proto3 methods of the generated code yet such as for (de)ser nor do we have real product use case for the IDL .proto yet(maybe ttp-as-service type aspects, etc..). Proto3 could probably warrant a whole new section and done in a later follow-on iteration?

Author: > Mentioning it in detail now seems superfluous

That is a a fair callout.I ll take this out

Author: done. removed

## Chronological Event Ordering

As of protocol 22, events in a ledger follow a specific chronological order:

1. Fee events from all transactions upfront
2. For each transaction:

- Events from each operation within the transaction
- Fee refund for the transaction (if any)

## Smart Contract Events

> This processor supports both - deriving events from classic operations, and parsing smart contract events emitted in the ledger.

Reviewer 2: grammar nit: comma splice

```suggestion
This processor supports both deriving events from classic operations and parsing smart contract events emitted in the ledger.
```

For smart contract events, the parsing logic is as follows:

- Check if the smart contract event is a SEP-41 compliant event.
- If yes, attempt to further validate if these are Stellar Asset Contract (SAC) tokens

## Usage

### Creating a Processor

<CodeExample>

> `````go

Reviewer 2: 5 backticks? should be 3

// Create a processor with the network passphrase
processor := token_transfer.NewEventsProcessor(networkPassphrase)

// Optionally disable contract events
processor := token_transfer.NewEventsProcessor(networkPassphrase, token_transfer.DisableContractEvents) ````
`````

</CodeExample>

> ### Processing a Ledger

Reviewer: Rather than sub-sections for each input type(ledger, tx, op) could consolidate to a section for `### Handling Events` and then demonstrate how to retrieve real event sub-types(mint, txfer, clawback, etc) from the `EventFromXYZ` methods.

Author: This part wherein I mention the 3 public functions is deliberately short.
If you notice, I dont mention how to get the ledgerCloseMeta either,

>  and then demonstrate how to retrieve real event sub-types(mint, txfer, clawback, etc) from the EventFromXYZ methods.

That seems rather elaborate and something that can be done by folks who want to dig deeper into TTP, imo

Author: when you put it that way, I am inclined to agree.
I 'll make the change

<CodeExample>

```go
// Verify events for a ledger
err := token_transfer.VerifyEvents(ledgerCloseMeta, networkPassphrase)
```

</CodeExample>

## Implementation Details

The processor handles various special cases:

1. **Minting and Burning**: Determined by checking if the source or destination is the asset issuer
2. **Liquidity Pools**: Specialized handling for pool deposits, withdrawals, and revoked trustlines
3. **Claimable Balances**: Tracks creation, claiming, and clawback operations
4. **Path Payments**: Processes complex paths with multiple asset conversions
5. **Muxed Accounts**: Preserves multiplexed account information in relevant events
6. **Soroban Fees**: Special handling for Soroban transaction fees and refunds

## Event Reconciliation (Legacy Protocol Support)

For ledgers with protocol version less than 8, the processor performs additional reconciliation to ensure consistency between observed balance changes and emitted events. This helps with retroactive event generation for older operations.

## References

- [CAP-67: Unified Events](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0067.md)

> - [SEP-41: Asset Token Contract Specification](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0041.md)

Reviewer 2: throw [SEP-35](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0035.md) in here for indexing clarity?

Author: done

---
title: Token Transfer Processor
sidebar_position: 0
---

## Overview

> The Token Transfer Processor (TTP) is a [package](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/ttp-v1.0.0/ingest/processors/token_transfer) which uses the [ingest-sdk](../ingest-sdk/README.mdx) to parse Stellar network transaction data and derive token transfer events. Before TTP, developers had to manually parse complex ledger data, operation results, and ledger entry changes to understand when and how assets moved between accounts, contracts, and other entities on the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Token Transfer Processor (TTP) is a [Go package](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/ttp-v1.0.0/ingest/processors/token_transfer) which uses the [ingest-sdk](../ingest-sdk/README.mdx) to parse Stellar network transaction data and derive token transfer events. Before TTP, developers had to manually parse complex ledger data, operation results, and ledger entry changes to understand when and how assets moved between accounts, contracts, and other entities on the network.
```

Author: done

Prior to [CAP-67 Unified Events](https://stellar.org/protocol/cap-67), tracking token transfers required significant custom logic to handle different operation types, interpret ledger changes, and reconstruct the flow of assets. CAP-67 introduced a standardized event format that simplifies this process by providing a unified way to represent all token transfer activities.

> TTP serves as the implementation bridge for CAP-67, automatically generating these standardized events from Stellar ledger data. It can operate in two modes:

Author: done

- **Standalone mode**: TTP analyzes operations, operation results, and ledger entry changes to derive transfer events
- **Unified events mode**: TTP reads directly from CAP-67 compliant unified events when available in the ledger data

For more details on operational modes, see the [Modes of Operation](#modes-of-operation) section.

## Key Features

> - Processes all token movement operations - classic and smart contract:

Author: yeah, but they are all over the docs and quite frankly, I dont know how we can do without the distinction.
the ecosystem too seems to think in terms of classic and smart

  - Simple Payments
  - Path payments
  - Account merges
  - Trustline Revocations
  - Claimable balance operations

>   - Liquidity pool operations

Reviewer 2: DEX too, yeah?

Author: forgot about that.
added

  - Clawback operations

>   - Smart contract events - Stellar Asset Contract events + SEP-41 compliant token events

Reviewer 2: nit: link SEP-41 and expand on its definition, e.g. `[SEP-41, Token Interface](link)` like you did w/ CAP-67 (it's always good to provide a brief description/title when referencing a CAP/SEP for the first time)

> - Generates standardized events:

Author: done

  - Transfer: Movement of tokens between accounts
  - Mint: Creation of new tokens
  - Burn: Destruction of tokens
  - Clawback: Asset issuer reclaiming tokens
  - Fee: Network fees paid

- Handles muxed account information in compliance with CAP-67 multiplexing support

- Reconciliation for older protocol versions to ensure consistency between operation changes and generated events

## Types of Events and Modeling

> TTP generates events based on [protobuf definitions](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/ttp-v1.0.0/protos/ingest/processors/token_transfer/token_transfer_event.proto) that align closely with the CAP-67 specification. Each event contains metadata and type-specific information structured as follows:

Reviewer 2: nitty recommendation, use Markdown's alternate `[text][cap67]` link format everywhere there's a CAP-67 reference then define `[cap67]: https://stellar.org/protocol/cap-67` at the bottom so people don't need to bounce around to find the definition

Author: 🤯 
done

> TTP generates events based on [protobuf definitions](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/ttp-v1.0.0/protos/ingest/processors/token_transfer/token_transfer_event.proto) that align closely with the CAP-67 specification. Each event contains metadata and type-specific information structured as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TTP generates events in Go bindings based on [protobuf definitions](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/ttp-v1.0.0/protos/ingest/processors/token_transfer/token_transfer_event.proto). The definitions codify an IDL for the standardized token transfer event models put forth in CAP-67. Each event contains metadata and type-specific information structured as follows:
```

Author: done

### Event Metadata

Every token transfer event includes comprehensive metadata to provide context about when and where the event occurred:

| Field | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `ledgerSequence` | `uint32` | The ledger number where this event occurred. This provides chronological ordering across the entire network. |
| `txHash` | `string` | The transaction hash that generated this event. This allows you to trace events back to their originating transaction. |
| `operationIndex` | `uint32*` | The zero-based index of the operation within the transaction that caused this event. This field is `nil` for transaction-level events like fees. |
| `contractAddress` | `string` | The contract address asociated with the asset/token being moved. For classic operations or Stellar Asset Contract Events, this field will be the contractId of the underlying classic asset. This enables integration with Stellar's smart contract ecosystem. |

:::note

The `contractAddress` field is particularly important for DeFi applications as it provides the bridge between classic Stellar assets and their smart contract representations.

:::

> ### Event Types

Reviewer: For consideration:
- Move '### Event Metadata' after the event types conclude on line 84 for more of a drill-down aspect. 
- Relocate the `toMuxedInfo` notes to be in the notes section under '### Event Metadata'  after 'contractAddress'. 
- Remove `### Event Types` header as the content would already be under proposed [## Events ](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/pull/1544/files#r2229141805) .

Author: Thats a good callout.
reorged as you suggested.

TTP generates five distinct types of token transfer events, each modeling different aspects of asset movement:

| Event Type | Description | Key Fields | When Generated |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Transfer** | Asset movement between two entities | `from`, `to`, `amount`, `asset`, `toMuxedInfo` | When assets move between accounts, contracts, or other entities |
| **Mint** | Asset creation by the issuer | `to`, `amount`, `asset`, `toMuxedInfo` | When an issuer creates new tokens or when assets are sent from the issuer |
| **Burn** | Asset destruction to the issuer | `from`, `amount`, `asset` | When assets are returned to the issuer for destruction |
| **Clawback** | Forced asset recovery by issuer | `from`, `amount`, `asset` | When an issuer uses clawback operations to recover assets |
| **Fee** | Network fee payment or refund | `account`, `amount` | For all transaction fees and Soroban fee refunds |

:::note

> The `toMuxedInfo` field is included in Transfer and Mint events when the destination uses a muxed account (M-address) and/or when transaction-level memo is set (in the case of non smart contract transactions), providing additional routing information.

Reviewer 2: nit: xref to muxed accounts / memos here

:::

> For more information on what to expect in the `toMuxedInfo` field, please refer to [this](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0067.md#prohibit-the-transaction-memo-and-muxed-source-accounts-from-being-set-on-soroban-transactions) section in CAP-67.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on what to expect in the `toMuxedInfo` field, please refer to [this](https://stellar.org/protocol/cap-67#prohibit-the-transaction-memo-and-muxed-source-accounts-from-being-set-on-soroban-transactions) section in CAP-67.
```

> ## Functions
> 
> TTP provides three main processing functions that operate at different levels of granularity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Go Usage

The Token Transfer package provides three distinct functions which derive events from different levels of granularity in the underlying Stellar network transaction metadata.
```

Author: done

```

This function processes an entire ledger and returns a flattened list of `TokenTransferEvent` objects. The order of events in the returned slice represents the chronological ordering of debits, credits, and fees as they were applied to accounts, trustlines, and contracts during ledger processing.

The chronological ordering is critical for applications that need to maintain accurate balance tracking or audit trails. For detailed information about how events are ordered, see the [Event Ordering](#event-ordering) section.

### EventsFromTransaction

```go
func (p *EventsProcessor) EventsFromTransaction(tx ingest.LedgerTransaction) (TransactionEvents, error)
```

This function processes a single transaction and returns a `TransactionEvents` structure that separates fee-related events from operation-related events:

- `FeeEvents`: Contains fee charges and refunds associated with the transaction
- `OperationEvents`: Contains all events generated by the transaction's operations

This separation is useful when you need to handle fees differently from operational transfers, such as for accounting or analytics purposes.

### EventsFromOperation

```go

> func (p *EventsProcessor) EventsFromOperation(tx ingest.LedgerTransaction, opIndex uint32, op xdr.Operation, opResult xdr.OperationResult) ([]*TokenTransferEvent, error)

Reviewer 2: suggestion: newlines for each args as this line is quite long

Author: done

TTP can operate in two distinct modes depending on how the ledger data was generated and what information is available:

### Default Mode (Recommended)

In default mode, TTP analyzes three sources of information to derive token transfer events:

- **Operations**: The actual operations submitted in transactions
- **Operation Results**: The success/failure results of each operation
- **Ledger Entry Changes**: The actual changes made to the ledger state

This mode works with all Stellar ledgers regardless of how they were generated or which stellar-core version produced them. It is the safest and most compatible option.

```go
// Default mode - works with all ledgers
processor := token_transfer.NewEventsProcessor(networkPassphrase)
```

### Unified Events Stream Mode

In unified events stream mode, TTP reads token transfer events directly from the unified events stream embedded in the ledger data. This mode is more efficient but requires ledgers that were generated with specific stellar-core configuration flags.

```go
// Unified events mode - only for specially configured ledgers
processor := token_transfer.NewEventsProcessorForUnifiedEvents(networkPassphrase)
```

:::caution

> Only use unified events stream mode if you are certain that your ledgers contain unified events. These ledgers must be generated by stellar-core with both `EMIT_CLASSIC_EVENTS=true` and `BACKFILL_STELLAR_ASSET_EVENTS=true` configuration flags enabled. TTP cannot dynamically determine whether a ledger contains unified events or not. If you configure TTP for unified events mode and then feed it ledgers without unified events, processing will fail with errors.

Reviewer: Can you provide more detail on 'processing will fail with errors' in this case, is there a specific Go Error type or message emitted that will indicate this specific case?

Author: this is a great catch.
TTP wont error out, it will silently produce no events.
Updated the text to reflect that

:::

**When in doubt, always use the default mode**, as it works reliably with all ledger types.

## Fee Event Types

TTP generates fee events to track network fees associated with transaction processing. Understanding the different types of fee events is important for accurate accounting:

### Fee Charges

Fee events are generated for all transactions, whether they succeed or fail. These represent the network fees that accounts pay to submit transactions to the Stellar network.

- **Present for**: Every transaction
- **Amount representation**: Positive values indicating fees paid
- **Asset**: Always XLM (Stellar's native asset)

### Fee Refunds

> Fee refund events are generated only for Soroban (smart contract) transactions, and only when there are unused resources that qualify for a refund.

Reviewer 2: grammar nit, comma splice

```suggestion
Fee refund events are generated only for Soroban (smart contract) transactions and only when there are unused resources that qualify for a refund.
```

Author: done

- **Present for**: Soroban transactions with unused resource fees
- **Amount representation**: Negative values to indicate money being returned
- **Asset**: Always XLM
- **Event type**: Uses the same `Fee` event type, distinguished by the negative amount

:::note

> TTP uses negative amounts in fee events to represent refunds rather than creating a separate refund event type. This approach maintains consistency with the CAP-67 specification while clearly indicating the direction of the fee transaction.

Reviewer: The '### Fee Refunds' and '### Fee Charges' could be relocated to child sections under '## Events' or as additional bullets in the notes section up there. This current location feels out of context as the article has progressed away from event types to other aspects.

Author: Folded this into the events section itself with a subsection for Fees
